getting to the gym isn't working and
your home bike is gathering dust you may
want to try an all-in-one home gym
system from X3 the X3 bar promises a
tech assisted full body workout in just
three pieces with three times the force
joining us with a live demonstration is
the creator Dr John jaquish good morning
Dr Jay thanks thanks Glory than for
being here so happy to be here so what
makes the X3 different from other
workout systems so when you look at
biomechanics the human body you're much
stronger in What's called the stronger
range than you are in the weaker range
that's why we call them that so about
Sevenfold difference from here to here
so once you know that why would you ever
lift a weight so what we need is a
weight that is accommodating so as we
push away from ourselves or whatever the
exercise is you go into the more
lengthened
position uh of the muscle like you want
more force and then well I should say
when the shorter position of the muscle
more lengthened position of the muscle
like when I'm coming back in a chest
press when my pectoral is stretched you
want less Force but you want to make
sure the force is there so one of the
problems with band training okay is you
don't get enough Force at the top you'll
see people trying to train and you know
they can do hundreds of repetitions and
nothing's really happening and we've all
seen people at the gym doing that the
other problem is at the bottom in the
lengthened position there's no tension
okay so you want to make sure there's t
there and the way the way this system
works we fix both those problems uh so
like we're going to Kirk's going to
demonstrate a chest press right
now okay here we go we're getting right
into it Go KY go you're going to look
like him by the end yourself you're
going to look like Dr Jon that's right
yes you got to and what I tell you to
eat you know while you're getting Kirk
situated can you just tell us how the
app supports the workout cuz we have a
big screenshot of it that we'll put up
on the screening
adjust your hand so that you're really
driving with the radius andma so don't
not like this pushing straight away form
form C push go ahead like really good
well you need to extend the arms all the
way is it too heavy for you okay let me
let me jump in here a nice for yeah yeah
yeah so here I'll I'll I'll demo this
one just cuz we're all set up for it um
so you can see here I am at the bottom
all right so just a a little bit of
tension I'm in the stretched position so
I'm at 85 lbs and as I push away from
myself it ends up being like 27 right
it's showing in the app and so as I'm
pushing
away you can see so that's atend exct
260 lb right well at the top it's 260
but at the bottom it's you know 75 but
let's say I do however many repetitions
I do and this is the important part this
is so you stimulate the most strength
and the most size growth you want to
shorten the Reps so my last couple
repetitions are maybe only from 175 lbs
but I'm completely exhausted I can see
why you would see that and so I do just
those shortened repetitions they're
called lengthened partials okay and they
are shown in research to be the most
anabolic and the most uh you know that
are going to be driving of muscular
growth so you're getting the most bang
for your buck let's talk about the
overhead press and I'm going to G this
one all right if I don't do well
hopefully my shoes distract you with let
see see how this goes Lauren Okay C
let's see how we
do see how easy it is okay all
right all right this is a contraption
that you're getting all set up and the
thing that I think would and for like
the novice like myself the the movement
where you really feel
it okay yes K right no the moment where
stand up no you want bring the bar up so
bend the knees bring the bar up to your
chin okay and now stand up and now push
it over your head very slow controlled
very slow and controlled great so now
all the way down to your chin back up so
at the max portion 93 lb when she comes
to the
bottom breathe goe go to the bottom go
so it's like 77 lb not bad so you
wouldn't be able to train with 90 lb
from here oh my gosh I can train with 5
lb weight right so very accommodating
and that's that's the purpose of
variable resistance exercise now I work
with NFL players I work with NBA players
uh all kinds of professional athletes
Olympians use this um It's very
effective it's also very safe on joints
see no matter what your experience with
weights are you can pull this off
without a lot of risk of injury well
that's amazing all right how about the
bicep curl Kirk yeah turn Kirk can
demonstrate the bicep curl once you jump
in here yeah so yeah I'm actually going
to switch the uh yeah hang on a second I
like your workout fith Kirk and you know
I don't know if we've actually talked
about
the the uh so both feet on the platform
okay to keep that from
happening I'm not I'm your worst student
here all right so far you're
right okay okay this a little keep the
elbows back it's still good yeah now
drag the bar up your chest right so you
keep the bicep tight the entire time
perfect so you're 50 at the top you know
more like 40 you 40 at the bottom okay
nice perfect now of course as I
mentioned the diminishing range is super
important so as you begin to go to
fatigue the repetitions get shorter and
shorter mhm so that and this makes it
just more impactful well it it makes it
so when you do a regular set of weight
training yeah you go to fatigue in one
position okay when you do this you go to
fatigue in maybe 10 different positions
oh wow because first you go to fatigue
in the strongest position then in the
and See's it's just start he's IND
fatigable right he he's got to the point
where he can't get to that stronger
range so now he's going to do lengthen
partials in those the weaker range of
motion all right Dr J how about a
deadlift a deadlift okay lower body
we're going to end with that you uh you
want to demo this right yeah yeah are
you good at deadlifts I don't know what
a deadlift is I'll let you know when I
we're about to find out find out all
right okay we have we have uh you know
less than a minute the cool thing about
all of this is how this is all
intertwined with the use of your app I
agree yeah shows you the Reps the pounds
yeah now there is a version without the
the electronic portion okay so you
so stand so stand completely on the bone
platform okay now Arch the back pull
your shoulder blades together pinch my
thumb with your shoulder blades okay now
slow and control manner stand
up okay so that's the 110 lbs at the top
and then again yeah just come
down
woo good slow and steady so it's
interesting you can see it's like 10 lbs
down here and as she goes further we're
at like 110b right all right well this
was awesome thanks for the workout Dr J
this is the wonderful system for more
information on Dr J in the X3 bar
workout go
to J Jake wish me Jake Jake wish
biomed.com you can also go to Dr jish at
Instagram and I highly recommend this is
cool yeah this what you do Dr J this is
how you look how muscular this is all
you do okay well you're a good NFL NBA
players uh some of the bodybuilders I
work with that's it all right we'll be
right back thank you so much